GIT

GIT Stands for "Global Information Tracker".

GIT is a Distributed Version Control.

It is mainly used for version control and Continuous Integration.

Structure

1. Central Repository, called GITHUB - where continuous integration is done

2. Local Repository which is in the local machine used for unit development

3. Folder Structure which is in the local system where we actually develop the code

4. The difference between folder structure and Local repository(git) is -- Git is another sub folder by the name ".GIT",
 
	Normally, we should not interact with the .git folder directly but we can interact with the GIT COMMANDS.

NOTE :  1. whenever we execute the git command, Folder should have .git sub folder

	2. Nested .git folder is not recommended

5. Whenever the code is developed, the code will be in the local folder. The local folder should be under .git folder

6. Once the code is developed inside the folder structure, the code should be transferred to the local repository (.git) by using git COMMANDS

7. From Local repository, The code can be integrated to the Central repository (Git Hub) using git Commands only

8. Taking the code from folders to the local repository is called "COMMIT".

	From local repo to central repo is called "PUSHING".

Q: Once pushing is done the code will be integrated 

A: False. 

NOTE: If many people are developing the code, Pushing doesn't mean integration but "MERGING" the code will be integrated. (we shall merge the branches)

i.e. When we create a project, we should create branches for the project.

TASK:::  Design a branching strategy for your Group ----- https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/git/branching-strategies-in-git/

9. Main Branch/ Master Branch -- is specifically kept for production level code

10. Dev Branch -- The code that is used for the Development (Sub Branch of Main Branch)

11. From Dev Branch, Every Team member can create a Feature Branch i.e. On which feature the developer is working on (Sub Branches of Dev Branch)

12. The Developed code will go to the feature branch..... Integrated code will go into the Dev Branch using MERGE (PULL REQUEST -- PR)

DIFFERENCE between PULL, REBASE, ....??


NOTE: Once the code is merged, we should delete the feature branch and also delete the feature clone folder in the local system, so that we don't have any merge conflicts.

13. From Folder to Local repository, we will use the following commands-----

	1. Git add (Staging command -- The file that went under changing will be MARKED for commit)
	
	2. Commit (The stage files will be copied to the local repository)

	3.  Clone(To create a local repository) or Git Init + Git remote

NOTE: Once you clone, before we edit the code make sure you are in the respective branch. By Default once we clone the control will be in the main branch  ---- Use:- git switch (recommend) / git checkout to switch into your feature 

branch. During pushing also, we should push from the respective branch




				----STEPS TO BE FOLLOWED-------

1. Open GitHub

2. Create a new Repository/project

3. Give a proper name and description

4. Add a readme.md to the repository because blank repository cant be cloned

5. Add Team members (settings > collaborations > click on Add People). Once the person accepts the request for collaboration, He/she will be able to see the repo

6. Go to the repository and copy the repository URL

7. Go to your respective folder in the local machine and open git bash

8. once git bash cli is opened, type " git clone URL"

9. set the global settings only once

	git config -global user.name User Name
	git config -global user. email User Email (where the repository is created)

Q: If the branch is not switched and the code is edited, how should we revert it?
